---
layout: cme195
---

# [](#welcome) Welcome to CME/STATS 195!


## [](#announcements) Announcements

* To get a head start, please install R (version >= 3.4.0) and RStudio IDE
(v. 1.0.153). Instructions for this can be found [here](installation).

* Note that the classroom location has changed to
[300-300](https://campus-map.stanford.edu/?id=01-300&lat=37.42636354&lng=-122.16968483&zoom=17&srch=300-300)
(building 300, room 300).

## [](#logistics) Logistics

* Location: [300-300](https://campus-map.stanford.edu/?id=01-300&lat=37.42636354&lng=-122.16968483&zoom=17&srch=300-300)
* Times: Tue, Thu 12:00 - 1:20 PM
* Dates:  10/3, 10/5, 10/10, 10/12, 10/17, 10/19, 10/24 and 10/26/2017.

**Instructor:**Â Lan Huong Nguyen (lanhuong at stanford dot edu)

**Office hours:** 3:00 - 4:00 PM, [Huang 304](https://campus-map.stanford.edu/?id=04-080&lat=37.42787956&lng=-122.17429865&zoom=17&srch=huang%20304)

**Communication:** Please direct your questions on class materials and
assignments to: [canvas](canvas.stanford.edu/).

## [](#course) Course Description

This short course runs for four weeks beginning in the second week of the
quarter. It is recommended for students who want to use R in statistics,
science, or engineering courses and for students who want to learn the basics of
R programming. The goal of the short course is to familiarize students with R's
tools for scientific computing.

The goal of the short course is to familiarize students with R's tools for
scientific computing. Class lectures will have interactive elements, and
assignments will be application-driven.

Topics covered include basic data structures, file I/O, control structures,
functions, visualizations, statistics packages.


## [](#logistics) Course prerequisites

There are no formal prerequisites. However, some statistics knowledge and prior
programming experience in some language is strongly encouraged. The class
focuses on familiarizing students with the R language, and some of its
statistics and visualization packages. We will not have time to go over the
technical details or the mathematics of the methods presented. Optional reading
will be assigned before or after class, for students who want to learn more
about the techniques presented.

## [](#logistics) Course Policy

There will be two homework sets, assigned the second and third week of class
(due the following week). You are also expected to submit a final project (in
groups up to 3 students). You are free to choose a topic for your final projects
yourself. Please submit a title and a one-paragraph summary/abstract for your
intended project by the third week of class.

You are encouraged to take the class for credit, as it forces you to get more
practice with R. However, anyone is also welcome to audit the class, but
auditors will not be able to have their assignments graded.

## [](#logistics) Honor code

You are strongly encouraged to work together and discuss both exercises and the
project. However, the write-ups and the code for the homeworks should be
completed and submitted individually. You are also free to use online resources
or solutions to the problems you find e.g. on stackoverflow/stackexchange but of
course not the full solutions to the assigned exercises.
